QUESTION: This while loop is missing the last contact, could you explain why? After fixing this, if
you press again the button in your app, is something strange happening? If yes, explain how to fix
it.
- The main problem had to do with the fact that the moveToNext() functions starts on index 1 and
not 0, hence skipping the first contact in the list. To solve this, the position of the cursor
was set to -1 in order to start indexing from the first contact. The moveToFirst() is overwritten
once moveToNext() is called.


What are the advantages of Firebase and what is the business model behind it? (POV of the
user and the developer)
- Firebase allows access to databases from the client-side code in a secure and direct manner.
Data is also updated in realtime which can enhance the user-experience and understanding of
the data. Firebase have two billing plans: Spark and Blaze where Spark is the standard plan. The
Blaze Plan is a uses a "pay as you go" model and it is based on usage. It also offers a bunch
of features which are not available in the Spark plan. This include the ability to extend your
project with Google Cloud. For testing purposes, the Spark plan is sufficient and lets the user try
out the platform.

Why Firebase is a relevant for mobile apps? Name 5 top benefits of using Firebase compared to
other approaches?
- Firebase provides backend as a service which makes it easier to program a mobile app in need
of different components such as a database as the backend for these are provided my Firebase.
Apps in need of user authentication can also easily make use of the authentication libraries
offered by Firebase instead of setting it up yourself. Thirdly, with the use of Firebase, provides
a Cloud storage mechanism which makes it possible for users to store data, in terms of videos
and pictures, on the cloud. It is also worth considering using Firebase if you need to save time as
is allows you to focus more on the mobile app development but it really depends on the specific
requirements of your app.

Identify 5 applications that could benefit from Firebase in particular for multi-device users?
- Applications that require user authentication for accessing their accounts (possible to save devices)
- Storage applications, possible to access same data from different devices
- Apps that need to sync calendars, in the same line of accessing user data
- Applications in need of sending notifications/messages to the user across multiple platforms
- Applications which enables users to communicate with each other